#	Top 60 Linux Interview Questions & Answers

##	1) What is Linux?

-	Linux is a multi-user and multi-tasking OS based on the Unix
-	There are wide varieties of flavors of distributions


##	2) What is the difference between UNIX and LINUX?

-	Unix originally began as a propriety operating system from Bell Laboratories, 
	-	which later on spawned into different commercial versions.
-	On the other hand, Linux is free, open source and intended as a non-propriety operating system for the masses.

##	3) What is BASH?

-	BASH is short for Bourne Again SHell. 
-	It was written by Steve Bourne as a replacement to the original Bourne Shell (represented by /bin/sh). 
-	It combines all the features from the original version of Bourne Shell
	-	plus additional functions to make it easier and more convenient to use
-	It has since been adapted as the default shell for most systems running Linux


##	4) What is Linux Kernel?

-	Kernel is nucleus or heart of the Linux
-	OS will have only kernel
-	Kernel main role is to manage hardware resorces for the users
-	It is also used to provide an interface for user-level interaction


##	5) What is LILO?

-	LILO is a boot loader
-	t is used mainly to load the Linux operating system into main memory so that it can begin its operations.


##	6) What is a swap space?

-	Swap space is a certain amount of space used by Linux 
-	To  hold some programs  temporarily that are running concurrently. 
-	This happens when RAM does not have enough memory to hold all programs that are executing

##	7) What is the advantage of open source?

-	Open source allows you to distribute your software, including source codes freely to anyone who is interested. 
-	People would then be able to add features and even debug and correct errors that are in the source code. 
-	They can even make it run better and then redistribute these enhanced source code freely again. 
-	This eventually benefits everyone in the community.

##	8 ) What are the basic components of Linux?

-	Linux has all of these components: kernel, shells and GUIs, system utilities, and an application program

##	9) Does it help for a Linux system to have multiple desktop environments installed?

-	In general, one desktop environment, like KDE or Gnome, is good enough to operate without issues 
-	It's all a matter of preference for the user, although the system allows switching from one environment to another
- 	Some programs will work in one environment and not work on the other, 
	-	so it could also be considered a factor in selecting which environment to use
	
	
##	10) What is the basic difference between BASH and DOS?


-	The key differences between the BASH and DOS console lie in 3 areas:
- 	BASH commands are case sensitive while DOS commands are not;
- 	Under BASH, / character is a directory separator and \ acts as an escape character. Under DOS, / serves as a command argument delimiter and \ is the directory separator
- 	DOS follows a convention in naming files, which is 8 character file name followed by a dot and 3 characters for the extension. BASH follows no such convention.	


##	11) What is the importance of the GNU project?

-	This so-called Free software movement allows several advantages
-	such as the freedom to run programs for any purpose and freedom to study and modify a program to your needs
-	It also allows you to redistribute copies of software to other people, 
	-	as well as the freedom to improve software and have it released for the public

##	12) Describe the root account.

-	The root account is like a systems administrator account and allows you full control of the system.
-	Here you can create and maintain user accounts, assigning different permissions for each account
-	It is the default account every time you install Linux.


##	13) What is CLI?

-	CLI is short for Command Line Interface.
-	This interface allows the user to type declarative commands to instruct the computer to perform operations
- 	CLI offers greater flexibility. 



##	15) How do you open a command prompt when issuing a command?

-	To open the default shell (which is where the command prompt can be found), press Ctrl-Alt-F1.
-	This will provide a command line interface (CLI) from which you can run commands as needed.

##	16) How can you find out how much memory Linux is using?

-	From a command shell, use the "concatenate" command: 
	
		cat /proc/meminfo for memory usage information
		
	-	This is the total memory Linux thinks it has available to use
	
-	You can also use commands

		free - m
		vmstat
		top
		htop	

##	17) What is a typical size for a swap partition under a Linux system?

-	The preferred size for a swap partition is twice the amount of physical memory available on the system. 
-	If this is not possible, then the minimum size should be the same as the amount of memory installed.


##	18) What are symbolic links?

-	Symbolic links act similarly to shortcuts in Windows.
- 	Such links point to programs, files or directories.
- 	It also allows you instant access to it without having to go directly to the entire pathname.


##	19) Does the Ctrl+Alt+Del key combination work on Linux?

-	Yes, it does. Just like Windows, you can use this key combination to perform a system restart. One difference is that you won't be getting any confirmation message and therefore, a reboot is immediate.

##	20) How do you refer to the parallel port where devices such as printers are connected?

-	Under Windows parallel port are referred to as the LPT port, under Linux you refer to it as /dev/lp.
- 	LPT1, LPT2 and LPT3 would therefore be referred to as /dev/lp0, /dev/lp1, or /dev/lp2 under Linux.

##	21) Are drives such as hard drive and floppy drives represented with drive letters?

-	No. In Linux, each drive and device have different designations.
- 	For example, floppy drives are referred to as /dev/fd0 and /dev/fd1. 
-	IDE/EIDE hard drives are referred to as /dev/hda, /dev/hdb, /dev/hdc, and so forth.

##	22) How do you change permissions under Linux?

-	symbolic manner
-	absolute manner

##	23) In Linux, what names are assigned to the different serial ports?

-	Serial ports are identified as /dev/ttyS0 to /dev/ttyS7. 
-	These are the equivalent names of COM1 to COM8 in Windows.

##	25) What are hard links?

-	Hard links point directly to the physical file on disk, and not on the pathname.
- 	This means that if you rename or move the original file, the link will not break 
-	since the link is for the file itself, not the path where the file is located.


##	26) What is the maximum length for a filename under Linux?

-	Any filename can have a maximum of 255 characters. 
-	This limit does not include the path name, so therefore the entire pathname and filename could well exceed 255 characters.


##	27)What are filenames that are preceded by a dot?

-	In general, filenames that are preceded by a dot are hidden files.
- 	These files can be configuration files that hold important data or setup info.
- 	Setting these files as hidden makes it less likely to be accidentally deleted.


##	31) What is the pwd command?

-	shows present working directory

##	32) What are daemons?

- 	Its main task is to listen for service request and at the same time to act on these requests. 
-	Daemons are services that provide several functions that may not be available under the base operating system.
-	After the service is done, it is then disconnected and waits for further requests.


##	34) What are the kinds of permissions under Linux?

-	There are 3 kinds of permissions under Linux:
	-	Read: users may read the files or list the directory
	- 	Write: users may write to the file of new files to the directory
	-	Execute: users may run the file or lookup a specific file within a directory
	
##	35) How does case sensitivity affect the way you use commands?
	
-	commands are considered identical only if every character is encoded as is, including lowercase and uppercase letters
- 	This means that CD, cd, and Cd are three different commands. 
-	Entering a command using uppercase letters, where it should be in lowercase, will produce different outputs

##	36) What are environmental variables?

-	Another common term for environmental variables is global shell variables.
-	Environmental variables are global settings that control the shell's function as well as that of other Linux programs.

##	37) What are the different modes when using vi editor?

-	Command Mode 
-	Insert mode

##	39) What is redirection?

-	Redirection is the process of directing data from one output to another.
- 	It can also be used to direct an output as an input to another process.


##	40) What is grep command?

-	grep a search command that makes use of pattern-based searching.
- 	It makes use of options and parameters that are specified along with the command line 
-	applies this pattern in searching the required file output.

##	41) What could be the problem when a command that was issued gave a different result from the last time it was used?

-	One highly possible reason for getting different results from what seems to be the same command has something to do with case sensitivity issues


##	42) What are the contents of /usr/local?

-	It contains locally installed files. 
-	This directory matters in environments where files are stored on the network
-	locally-installed files go to /usr/local/bin, /usr/local/lib
-	Another application of this directory is that it is used for software packages installed from source, or software not officially shipped with the distribution


##	43) How do you terminate an ongoing process?

-	Every process in the system is identified by a unique process id or pid. 
-	Use the kill command followed by the pid to terminate that process.
-	To terminate all process at once, use kill 0.


##	45) What is command grouping and how does it work?

-	You can use parentheses to group commands. 
-	For example, if you want to send the current date and time along with the contents of a file named OUTPUT 
	-	to a second file named MYDATES, you can apply command grouping as follows: 
	
			
			(date cat OUTPUT) > MYDATES
			
##	47) Write a command that will look for files with an extension "c", and has the occurrence of the string "apple" in it.

				
				
		find . -name "*.c" | xargs  grep  "apple" -i		
		
##	48) Write a command that will display all .txt files, including its individual permission.

		ls -al *.txt	
	

##	49) Write a command that will do the following:

-look for all files in the current and subsequent directories with an extension c,v
-strip the,v from the result (you can use sed command)
-use the result and use a grep command to search for all occurrences of the word ORANGE in the files.

		Find ./ -name "*.c,v" | sed 's/,v//g' | xargs grep "ORANGE"	


##	50) What, if anything, is wrong with each of the following commands?

-	a) ls -l-s
-	b) cat file1, file2
-	c) ls - s Factdir
	
	Answers:
	
	-	a) there should be space between the 2 options: ls -l -s
	-	b) do not use commas to separate arguments: cat file1 file2
	-	c) there should be no space between hyphen and option label: ls –s Factdir



##	51) What is the command to calculate the size of a folder?

		To calculate the size of a folder uses the command du –sh folder1


##	52) How can you find the status of a process?

		ps ux

##	53) How can you check the memory status?

-	You can use the command

		free -m to display output in MB
		
		free -g to display output in GB
	

##	55) How can you append one file to another in Linux?

-	To append one file to another in Linux you can use command cat file2 >> file 1. 
-	The operator >> appends the output of the named file or creates the file if it is not created. 
-	While another command cat file 1 file 2 > file 3 appends two or more files to one.



##	56) Explain how you can find a file using Terminal?

-	To find a file you have to use a command, 
		find . –name "process.txt" 
-	It will look for the current directory for a file called process.txt


##	58) Explain how you can view the text file using Terminal?

		less filename.txt
	
##	59) Explain how to enable curl on Ubuntu LAMP stack?

-	To enable curl on Ubuntu, first, install libcurl, once done use following command 
	sudo/etc/init .d /apache2 restart or sudo service apache2 restart
	

##	61) How can you run a Linux program in the background simultaneously when you start your Linux Server?

-	By using nohup. 
-	It will stop the process receiving the NOHUP signal and thus terminating it you log out of the program which was invoked with.
- 	& runs the process in the background.


##	62) Explain how to uninstall the libraries in Linux?

		
-	To uninstall the libraries in Linux, you can use command sudo apt-get remove library_name


##	Create the directory structure : A/B/C/D ?

		mkdir -p A/B/C/D

##	Create directory “Qwest” with permission 700 ?

		mkdir -m 700 Qwest


##	Rename the directory Qwest to Qwest_bkp ?

		mv Qwest Qwest_bkp
		
		
##	Copy the Whole Qwest directory to Qwest_bkp ?

		cp -R Qwest/* Qwest_bkp/
		

##	How to copy a directory recursively ?

		cp -R

##	How to create a link to a directory ?

		ln -s DIR_Name Link_Name
		
##	How to create a hard/soft link to a file without using ln command ?

		cp -l Source Destn -->Hard link
		link source Destn  -->Hard link

		cp -s Souce Destn -->Soft link
		
##	20)What is link and unlink command ?

link   -- To create hard link 
unlink -- Remove the links / files		


##	What is the default directory permission ?
	
		777

##	What is the default file permission ?

		666
	
##	What is umask value?

-	When user create a file or directory under Linux or UNIX, we create it with a default set of permissions
- 	For example, if a text file has 666 permissions, it grants read and write permission to everyone
-	Similarly a directory with 777 permissions, grants read, write, and execute permission to everyone

-	Default umask Value

	-	The user file-creation mode mask (umask) is use to determine the file permission for newly created files
	-	It can be used to control the default file permission for new files. It is a four-digit octal number
	-	A umask can be set or expressed using:

		-	Symbolic values
		-	Octal values
		
-	Procedure To Setup Default umask
	
	-	We can setup umask in /etc/bashrc or /etc/profile file for all users
	-	By default most Linux distro set it to 0022 (022) or 0002 (002)
	
-	Octal Values of umask

	-	Octal value : Permission
	-	0 : read, write and execute
	-	1 : read and write
	-	2 : read and execute
	-	3 : read only
	-	4 : write and execute
	-	5 : write only
	-	6 : execute only
	-	7 : no permissions

-	Explain Octal umask Mode 022 And 002
	
	-	Files are created with the access mode 666 and directories with 777
		
		-	The default umask 002 used for normal user
		-	With this mask default directory permissions are 775 and default file permissions are 664
		
	-	For directories, the base permissions are (rwxrwxrwx) 0777 and for files they are 0666 (rw-rw-rw)	
	-	The default umask for the root user is 022 result into default directory permissions are 755 and default file permissions are 644
	
	
-	CALCULATING THE FINAL PERMISSION FOR FILES

	-	666 – 022 = 644
	-	777 – 022 = 755



##	20)   What is absolute path and relative path ?

Absolute path is the complete path
Relative path -- use . and .. to specify the path according to your current working directory.

##	How umask value plays the role in changing the permission ?

-	Umask is plays the role by setting the permissions while creating the files and directories
-	Umask defines what should be the default files permissions while its created


###	Let's  say I want to set the umask value as 0077 permanently. What are the steps to do it ? After the set up what will be the directory and file permissions ?

-	We have to set it in profile file called .bash_profile file

		umask 0077   -- > Add this line in profile 

-	After this ,Effective Dir permission will be 700 and file permission will be 600


##	What is setuid and setgid?

-	SETUid and SETGid will applicable on the executable files

-	setuid bit:

	-	Normally, on a unix-like operating system, the ownership of files and directories is based on the default uid (user-id) and gid (group-id) of the user who created them
	-	The same thing happens when a process is launched: it runs with the effective user-id and group-id of the user who started it, and with the corresponding privileges. This behavior can be modified by using special permissions

	-	When the setuid bit is used, the behavior described above it's modified so that when an executable is launched, it does not run with the privileges of the user who launched it, but with that of the file owner instead. 

	-	So, for example, if an executable has the setuid bit set on it, and it's owned by root, when launched by a normal user, it will run with root privileges. It should be clear why this represents a potential security risk, if not used correctly. 
		
			ls -l /bin/passwd
			-rwsr-xr-x. 1 root root 27768 Feb 11  2017 /bin/passwd
			
	-	The setuid bit has no effect on directories			
		
-	setgit bit:

	-	Unlike the setuid bit, the setgid bit has effect on both files and directories.
	-	The file which has the setgid bit set, when executed, instead of running with the privileges of the group of the user who started it, runs with those of the group which owns the file: in other words, the group ID of the process will be the same of that of the file
	
	
##	What is sticky bit??

-	Sticky Bit doesn't have effect on files
-	Sticky Bit works only on the directories
-	When used on a directory, all the files in said directory will be modifiable only by their owners.
-	 A typical case in which it is used, involves the /tmp directory. 
-	Typically this directory is writable by all users on the system, so to make impossible for one user to delete the files of another one, the sticky bit is set:

			$ ls -ld /tmp
			drwxrwxrwt. 14 root root 300 Nov  1 16:48 /tmp
			

##	How to set special bits

-	If we want to set the setgid bit on a directory we would execute			

			$ 	chmod 2775 test
			$	chmod g+s test
			
			
-	To apply the setuid bit to a file, we would have run

			$ 	chmod u+s file
			
			
-	To apply sticky bit:
			
			$ chmod o+t test
			

##	12) How to set sticky bit ?

			chmod +t dir_name

##	13) How to revoke sticky bit ?

			chmod -t dir_name
			

##	 What is the default permission for symbolic link(s) ?Can we change the permission of symbolic links ?


-	777 


##	 What will happen if you change the permission of symbolic/soft link (s) ?

-	Permission of source file will be changed.

			
			
	
				

			


	

		
	
		
		














































































































































