#	Unix Interview Questions

##	1) What is UNIX?

-	It is a portable operating system that is designed for both efficient multi-tasking and multi-user functions. 
-	Its portability allows it to run on different hardware platforms

##	2) what are filters?

-	Any program takes the input and performs some operations on that input and write results to standard output.
-	A Filter is also any program that can be used between two other programs in a pipeline.


##	3) What is a typical syntax being followed when issuing commands in shell?

-	Typical command syntax under the UNIX shell follows the format:

		Command [-argument] [-argument] [--argument] [file]
		
		
		
##	4) Is there a way to erase all files in the current directory, including all its sub-directories, using only one command?

-	Yes, that is possible. Use "rm –r *" for this purpose. 
			
			rm -rf *
			
-	The rm command is for deleting files. 
-	The –r option will erase directories and subdirectories, including files within.
- 	The asterisk represents all entries.


##	5) What is the chief difference between the –v and –x option s to set?

-	The –v option echoes each command before arguments and variables have been substituted for; 
-	the –x option echoes the commands after substitution has taken place.


##	6) What is Kernel?

-	Kernel is the UNIX operating system is the master program that controls the computer's resources, allotting them to different users and performing different tasks
-	However, the kernel doesn't deal directly with a user. 
-	Instead, it starts up a separate, interactive program, called a shell, for each user when he/she logs on.


##	7) What is Shell?

-	A shell acts as an interface between the user and the system. 
-	As a command interpreter, the shell takes commands and sets them up for execution.


##	9) What are some common shells and what are their indicators?

-	sh – Bourne shell
-	csh – C SHell
-	bash – Bourne Again Shell
-	tcsh – enhanced C Shell
-	zsh – Z SHell
-	ksh – Korn SHell


##	10) Differentiate multiuser from multitask.

-	Multiuser means that more than one person can use the computer at the same time. 
-	Multitask means that even a single user can have the computer work on more than one task or program at the same time.

##	11) What is command substitution?

-	Command substitution is one of the steps being performed every time commands are processed by the shell. 
-	The shell executes only those commands that are enclosed in backquotes. 
-	This will then replace the standard output of the command and displayed on the command line.


##	13) What is inode?

-	An inode is an entry created on a section of the disk set aside for a file system
-	The inode contains nearly all the information about a file
-	It includes the location on the disk where the file starts, the size of the file, when the file was last used 
	-	when the file was last changed, what the various read, write and execute permissions are, 
	-	who owns the file, and other information.

##	14) You have a file called tonky in the directory honky. Later you add new material to tonky. What changes take place in the directory, inode, and file?

-	The directory entry is unchanged since the name and inode number remain unchanged
-	In the inode file, the file size, time of last access, and time of last modification are updated
- 	In the file itself, the new material is added


##	15) Describe file systems in UNIX

-	Understanding file systems in UNIX has to do with knowing how files and inodes are stored on a system.
-	What happens is that a disk or portion of a disk is set aside to store files and the inode entries. 
-	The entire functional unit is referred to as a file system.


##	16) Differentiate relative path from an absolute path.

-	Relative path refers to the path relative to the current path.
- 	An absolute path, on the other hand, refers to the exact path as referenced from the root directory.


##	17) Explain the importance of directories in a UNIX system


-	Files in a directory can be a directory itself; it would be called a subdirectory of the original
-	This capability makes it possible to develop a tree-like structure of directories and files
	-	which is crucial in maintaining an organizational scheme
	

##	18) Briefly describe the Shell's responsibilities

-	program execution
-	variable and file name substitution
-	I/O redirection
-	pipeline hookup
-	environment control
-	interpreted programming language

##	19) What are shell variables?

-	Shell variables are a combination of a name ( identifier), and an assigned value, which exists within the shell.
-	These variables may have default values, or whose values can be manually set using the appropriate assignment command.
-	Examples of shell variable are PATH, TERM, and HOME.

##	20) What are the differences among a system call, a library function, and a UNIX command?

-	A system call is part of the programming for the kernel
-	A library function is a program that is not part of the kernel but which is available to users of the system.
- 	UNIX commands, however, are stand-alone programs; they may incorporate both system calls and library functions in their programming.

##	21) What is Bash Shell?

-	It is a free shell designed to work on the UNIX system.
-	Being the default shell for most UNIX-based systems, it combines features that are available both in the C and Korn Shell.



##	22) Enumerate some of the most commonly used network commands in UNIX

-	telnet – used for remote login
-	ping – an echo request for testing connectivity
-	su – user switching command
-	ftp – file transfer protocol used for copying files
-	finger – information gathering command



##	23) Differentiate cmp command from diff command.

-	The cmp command is used mainly to compare two files byte by byte, after which the first encountered mismatch is shown.
- 	On the other hand, the diff command is used to indicate the changes that is to be made in order to make the two files identical to each other.

##	24) What is the use of -l when listing a directory?

-	-l, which is normally used in listing command like ls,
-	is used to show files in a long format, one file per line
-	Long format refers to additional information that is associated with the file, such as ownership, permissions, data, and filesize


##	25) What is piping?

-	Piping, represented by the pipe character "|", is used to combine two or more commands together. 
-	The output of the first command serves as input the next command, and so on.



##	26) What is a superuser?

-	A superuser is a special type user who has open access to all files and commands on a system
- 	Note that the superuser's login is usually root, and is protected by a so-called root password


##	27) How do you determine and set the path in UNIX?

-	Each time you enter a command, a variable named PATH or path will define in which directory the shell will search for that command
-	 In cases wherein an error message was returned
	-	the reason maybe that the command was not in your path
	-	or that the command itself does not exist
-	You can also manually set the path using the "set path = [directory path]" command


##	28) Is it possible to see information about a process while it is being executed?

-	Every process is uniquely identified by a process identifier. 
-	It is possible to view details and status regarding a process by using the ps command

	ps ux
	

##	29) What is the standard convention being followed when naming files in UNIX?

-	One important rule when naming files is that characters that have special meaning are not allowed, such as * / & and %


##	30) Why is it that it is not advisable to use root as the default login?

-	The root account is very important, and with abusive usage, can easily lead to system damage.
-	That's because safeguards that normally apply to user accounts are not applicable to the root account.


##	32) Differentiate cat command from more command.

-	When using the cat command to display file contents, 
	-	large data that does not fit on the screen would scroll off without pausing, therefore making it difficult to view
- 	On the other hand, using the more command is more appropriate in such cases because it will display file contents one screen page at a time.


##	34) What is pid?


-	Pid is short for Process ID. 
-	It is used primarily to identify every process that runs on the UNIX system,
	-	whether it runs on the foreground or runs in the background. 
-	Every pid is considered unique.

##	35) How does the system know where one command ends and another begins?

-	The newline character, which is generated by the ENTER or RETURN key, acts as the signpost
-	However, the semicolon and the ampersand characters can also serve as command terminators


##	38) What is the output of this command? $who | sort –logfile > newfile

-	In this command, the output from the command "who" becomes the input to the "sort" command.
- 	At the same time, "sort" opens logfile, arranges it together with the output from the command "who"
- 	and places the final sorted output to the file newfile.


##	39) How do you switch from any user type to a super user type?

-	In order to switch from any user type to a superuser, you use the su command
- 	However, you will be asked to key in the correct superuser password before full access privileges are granted to you


##	40) What would be the effect of changing the value of PATH to: .:/usr/della/bin: /bin: /usr/bin

-	This would cause the shell to look in the /usr/della/bin directory after looking in the current directory 
- 	before looking in the /bin directory when searching for a command file


##	41) Write a command that will display files in the current directory, in a colored, long format.

		ls -l --color
		
		
##	42) Write a command that will find all text files in a directory such that it does not contain the word "amazing" in any form (that is, it must include the words Amazing, AMAZING, or aMAZINg)

		grep -vi 'amazing' *.txt


##	43) Write a command that will output the sorted contents of a file named IN.TXT and place the output in another file named OUT.TXT, while at the same time excluding duplicate entries.

			sort IN.TXT | uniq > OUT.TXT
			
	
##	46) What does this command do? cat food 1 > kitty

-	it redirects the output of cat food into the file kitty;
-	the command is the same as:cat food > kitty



##	47) What is wrong with this interactive shell script?

		echo What month is this?
		read $monthecho 
		$month is as good a month as any.
		
-	Initially, the question mark should be escaped (\?) so that it is not interpreted as a shell metacharacter.
- 	Second, it should be read month, not read $month.		


##	48) Write a shell script that requests the user's age and then echoes it, along with some suitable comment.

	
	echo Hello! What\'s your age\?
	read age
	echo $age! I\'ll be obsolete by that age!

##	49) Write a script that prints out date information in this order: time, the day of week, day number, month, year(sample output: 17:34:51 PDT Sun 12 Feb 2012)

		set 'date'
		echo $4 $5 $1 $3 $2 $6



##	50) Write a script that will show the following as output:

	Give me a U!
	U!
	Give ma a N!
	N!
	Give me a I!
	I!
	Give me a X!
	X!

-	Answer:

		
		for i in U N I X
		do 
			echo Give me a $i!
			echo $i!
		done









































		